---
title: Go (GoLang)
---

<!--more-->

## Why
* [Reference](https://medium.com/@kevalpatel2106/why-should-you-learn-go-f607681fad65)

1. Go has goroutines instead of threads.
    * Goroutines have growable segmented stacks.
    * Goroutines have a faster startup time than threads.
    * Goroutines come with built-in primitives to communicate safely between themselves (channels).
    * Goroutines allow you to avoid having to resort to mutex locking when sharing data structures.
    * A single goroutine can run on multiple threads. Goroutines are multiplexed into small number of OS threads.
2. Compiled language.
    * Performance is almost nearer to lower level languages.
3. Neat and clean syntax
    * No classes. Every thing is divided into packages only. Go has only structs instead of classes.
    * Does not support inheritance.
    * No constructors.
    * No annotations.
    * No generics.
    * No exceptions.

## Tour
* [Reference](https://tour.golang.org/list)

``` go
package main

import (
    "fmt"
    "math/rand"
)

func main() {
    fmt.Println("My favorite number is", rand.Intn(10))
}
```

### 1. Packages
1. Programs start running in package `main`.

### 2. Imports
1. The imports are grouped into a parenthesized, "factored" import statement. 
2. Multiple import statements can also be used, like Java.

### 3. Exported names
1. A name is exported if it begins with a **capital** letter.

### 4. Functions
1. Type comes *after* the variable name.

``` go
package main

import "fmt"

func add(x int, y int) int {
    return x + y
}

func main() {
    fmt.Println(add(42, 13))
}
```

2. When two or more consecutive named function parameters share a type, you can omit the type from all but the last. 

    ```x int, y int```

    to 

    ```x, y int```.

#### 4.1 Multiple results
1. A function can return **any number** of results. The `swap` function returns two strings.

``` go
package main

import "fmt"

func swap(x, y string) (string, string) {
    return y, x
}

func main() {
    a, b := swap("hello", "world")
    fmt.Println(a, b)
}

```

#### 4.2 Named return values
* Go's return values may be named. If so, they are treated as variables defined at the top of the function.
* A return statement without arguments returns the named return values. This is known as a "naked" return.
* Naked return statements should be used only in short functions, as with the example shown here. They can harm readability in longer functions.

``` go
package main

import "fmt"

func split(sum int) (x, y int) {
    x = sum * 4 / 9
    y = sum - x
    return
}

func main() {
    fmt.Println(split(17))
}
```

### 5. Variables
* The var statement declares a list of variables; as in function argument lists, the type is last.
* A var statement can be at package or function level.

``` go
package main

import "fmt"

var c, python, java bool

func main() {
    var i int
    fmt.Println(i, c, python, java)
}
```

#### 5.1 Variables with initializers
* A var declaration can include initializers, one per variable.
* If an initializer is present, the type can be omitted; the variable will take the type of the initializer.

``` go
package main

import "fmt"

var i, j int = 1, 2

func main() {
    var c, python, java = true, false, "no!"
    fmt.Println(i, j, c, python, java)
}
```

#### 5.2 Short variable declarations
* Inside a function, the := short assignment statement can be used in place of a `var` declaration with implicit type.
* Outside a function, every statement begins with a keyword (`var, func`, and so on) and so the `:=` construct is not available.

``` go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    var i, j int = 1, 2
    k := 3
    c, python, java := true, false, "no!"

    fmt.Println(i, j, k, c, python, java)
}
```